It was Easter Sunday in the year 1900 CE, and a group of Greek sponge divers had found themselves off the coast of a small island named Antikythera which lies in the Aegean between Crete and mainland Greece. The divers were not used to diving this particular area, having found themselves pushed off course due to an earlier storm, but chose to dive regardless. One of the divers, a man named Elias Stadiatos, would discover beneath them a Roman shipwreck filled with an abundance of lost treasures estimated to have sunk sometime around 100 BCE on its way from Rhodes towards Rome. The ship was a Roman cargo ship and within its hull contained over 100 statues, amphorae, and coins. Of these artifacts, it was bronze and marble statues that caught Stadiatos' attention at first, leading to the discovery, but they would not be what would make this shipwreck significant. It would turn out to be a collection of chalky bronze lumps that would become the objects of true importance amidst the find. 

After the discovery, all of the the artifacts were documented and sent off for examination and display at the National Museum in Athens. Originally, the bronze lumps were listed on record as an astrolabe, an old navigational instrument useful in astronomy, and were somewhat disregarded amongst the rest of the artifacts. In May of 1902 things changed, for the largest of these chalky objects broke apart and it was discovered that a complex gear structure existed within it. Whilst originally thought to be an astrolabe, after examination by a naval officer it was stated in 1905 that it was much too complex to be one. The ancient geared device was dubbed the \emph{Antikythera Mechanism} after the place of its founding. In all of known history, nothing similar has ever been found that predates it, making it the worlds oldest known geared device of such complexity, and because of the nature of the internal workings, it has forced us to reexamine our view on the level of technology available to the Greeks circa 100 BCE.  

Since its discovery, the Antikythera Mechanism has been examined and scrutinized to understand its functionality and purpose and to find clues on who designed it, but the first major advancements came with the work of Derek de Solla Price, who did extensive research on the device.
